WEBVTT

Before you go ahead and start working hands on on Java EE modules  and projects I will summarize
the key.
Six classes and interfaces that you will be using throughout this course as well as throughout your JavaEE development.
The names of these classes will be derived from the module name you are working on.
It will all start with the model class whose name will be derived directly from the module name for
example if the model you are working on is employee module then the moral class name will be employee
dot Java.
If you are working on admin Module this will be admin dot Java.
This model class represents the data of our domain usually it directly corresponds to a database
table in case of an employee.
It represents the employee table and so on.
Once we have the model we will come up with a DAO interface or data access layer interface.
The naming convention here is I dashed DAO
When you learn spring data.
You will see that all this will go away the data access layer will be simplified.
But there are javaEE applications out there which  still follow this convention and that is the reason I
am explaining this.
If the model name is Employee this interface will be I employee DAO and this interface will be implemented
by a class called employee DAO implement
So the relationship between an interface and a class within a layer is a relationship this DAO 
impl is a DAO it
Implements this DAO
This is inheritance.
Once we have the data access layer we implement the Services layer wherein we have
I dash employee service employees service employees a class that implements this interface.
So the relationship within a layer is a easy relationship and the relationship across layers is a has
a relationship.
So the services impl class here will use the services provided by that data access layer interface
and it has data access Layer DAO as we'll see later on we will do dependency injection of this DAO into the
service impl and use it.
Similarly the last important component in a spring application is the controller.
If the module name is Employee it will be employee controller.
The module name is admin.
It would be admin controller and so on 
This is a class and it will use it has a has a relationship with the services layer interface.
So the key six components out of which two are interfaces are IDAO
And I_service
These two are interfaces.
Rest all are classes the model class the controller class the services class that implements the services.
interface and the Dao impll class that implements the dao interface.
And as I have said spring data will make it a lot easier and we can avoid this Dao interface and impl as you
will see shortly.